---
layout: article
title: Release
subtitle: developer guide
relativePath: ..
---

This table lists all the steps to follow to release a new UML Designer version.

h2. Prepare/validate nightly

|Action                                                                    |v6.0.0|
|"Release 0":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release0 |    OK|
|"Release 1":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release1 |    OK| 
|"Release 2":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release2 |    OK|
|"Release 3":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release3 |    OK|
|"Release 4":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release4 |    OK|
|"Release 5":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release5 |    OK|
|"Release 6":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release6 |    OK| 
|"Release 7":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release7 |    OK|
|"Release 8":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release8 |    OK|

h1. Deploy on umldesigner.org

|Action                                                                      |v6.0.0|
|"Release 9":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release9   |    OK|
|"Release 10":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release10 |    OK|
|"Release 11":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release11 |    KO| 
|"Release 12":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release12 |    OK|
|"Release 13":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release13 |    OK|
|"Release 14":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release14 |    OK|

h2. Deploy on Eclipse marketplace

|Action                                                                      |v6.0.0|
|"Release 15":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release15 |    OK|
|"Release 16":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release16 |    KO| 

h2. Deploy on the obeonetwork

|Action                                                                      |v6.0.0|
|"Release 17":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release17 |    KO|
|"Release 18":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release18 |    KO|
|"Release 19":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release19 |    KO|
|"Release 20":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release20 |    KO|
|"Release 21":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release21 |    KO| 
|"Release 22":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release22 |    KO|

h2. Spread the world

|Action                                                                      |v6.0.0|
|"Release 23":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release23 |    KO|
|"Release 24":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release24 |    KO|
|"Release 25":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release25 |    KO|
|"Release 26":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release26 |    KO| 
|"Release 27":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release27 |    KO|
|"Release 28":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/release.html#release28 |    KO|

h2. Actions details

h3(#release0). Release 0

Update the "release checklist" page:{{ page.relativePath }}.

h3(#release1). Release 1

Bump plugins version numbers in git: In UML Designer all the org.obeonetwork.dsl.uml2.xxx plugins are synchronized to the same version.

h3(#release2). Release 2

Bump UML product version: 
* "sketcher.product":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/blob/master/packaging/org.obeonetwork.dsl.uml2.product/sketcher.product
* "branding/plugin.xml":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/blob/master/plugins/org.obeonetwork.dsl.uml2.branding/plugin.xml the @aboutText@.
* and for _major_ version update also the "splash screen (bmp, png)":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/blob/master/plugins/org.obeonetwork.dsl.uml2.branding/

h3(#release3). Release 3

Prepare the draft release notes in github: "https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/releases":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/releases

h3(#release4). Release 4

Update umldesigner.org "download":http://www.umldesigner.org/download/ page to add the new release.
To do this, update in the documentation the "download page":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/blob/master/documentation/download/index.textile.

h3(#release1). Release 5

Build and deploy the UML Designer nightly update site and products: The "build":https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/ is automatically launched when a commit is pushed on the "github repository":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer.
The nightly build results are available on S3: "http://umldesigner.s3.amazonaws.com/nightly/master/bundles/UMLDesigner-linux.gtk.x86_64.zip":http://umldesigner.s3.amazonaws.com/nightly/master/bundles/UMLDesigner-linux.gtk.x86_64.zip
For more details about the build, have a look to the "build section":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/build.html of the developer guide.

h3(#release6). Release 6

Validate the unit tests: Check the results of the unit test in the nightly build: "https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/builds":https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/builds.

h3(#release7). Release 7

Validate the product: Relaunch the "UI tests build":https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer-UI-Tests for the branch which must be validated. A _re-launch_ button is available on the build/job page. The tests results are available on S3: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/umldesigner/nightly/${BRANCH_NAME}/test-results/${JOB_NUMBER}/rcpttTests.html:https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/umldesigner/nightly/master/test-results/28.13/rcpttTests.html

h3(#release8). Release 8

Test install from jee (using nightly build update-site) : Download an Eclipse JEE and try to install the nightly build update-site.

h3(#release9). Release 9

Tag UML Designer version in git : 
@git tag x.x.x@ 

h3(#release10). Release 10

"Release":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/releases the version in github.
Build and deploy the UML Designer released update site and products: The "build":https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/ is automatically launched when a tag is pushed on the "github repository":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer.
@git push origin master --tags@

The build results are available on S3: http://umldesigner.s3.amazonaws.com/x.x.x/
For more details about the build, have a look to the "build section":{{ page.relativePath }}/developer-guide/build.html of the developer guide.

h3(#release11). Release 11

Test check for updates from previous version. From a previous installed version of the UML Designer product, try to use check for updates to upadte to the new released version.

h3(#release12). Release 12

Close all the related "issues":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/issues in github.

h3(#release13). Release 13

Close all the related "milestones":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/milestones in github.

h3(#release14). Release 14

Test install from umldesigner.org "download":http://www.umldesigner.org/download/ page :
* Install product
* Install update-site

h3(#release22). Release 15

"Download":http://www.umldesigner.org/download/ the update site zip and test to install it locally.

h3(#release15). Release 16

Update UML Designer description on the "Eclipse marketplace:http://marketplace.eclipse.org"

h3(#release16). Release 17

Test install from "Eclipse marketplace":https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/uml-designer-eclipse-luna-version

h3(#release17). Release 18

Modify aggregation network :
@git repo https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/Aggregation sirius_x_x branch@

h3(#release18). Release 19

Launch aggregation build : https://travis-ci.org/ObeoNetwork/Aggregation
Just push the updates on the repo. The build is launched automatically.

h3(#release19). Release 20

Synchronize the "obeonetwork marketplace":http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/admin

h3(#release20). Release 21

Synchronize the "obeonetwork jira":http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/admin

h3(#release21). Release 22

Test install from "Obeo marketplace":http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/module/uml/download using the update site.

h3(#release23). Release 23

Send mail to Obeo.

h3(#release24). Release 24

Post message on "obeonetwork UML Designer forum":http://www.obeonetwork.com/group/uml-designer/forum/.

h3(#release25). Release 25

Post message on "G+":https://plus.google.com.

h3(#release26). Release 26

Post message on "twitter":https://twitter.com/.

h3(#release27). Release 27

Create "google analytics":https://www.google.com/analytics annotation for the web site and the usage plugin.

h3(#release28). Release 28

Update wikipedia pages: 
* "Comparaison des logiciels d'UML":http://fr.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Comparaison_des_logiciels_d%27UML&veaction=edit&vesection=1, 
* "List of Unified Modeling Language tools":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unified_Modeling_Language_tools, 
* "UML Designer":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UML_Designer
