---
layout: article
title: Download
subtitle: Get UML Designer
relativePath: ..
---

h1. Download & Install

To install UML Designer, it is possible to:
* download a "bundle":{{page.relativePath}}/download/index.html#Bundles, in this case UML designer is already installed, just unzip and run the @umldesigner@ executable.
* get UML Designer in an existing Eclipse from the "marketplace":{{page.relativePath}}/download/index.html#Marketplace or from an "update-site":{{page.relativePath}}/download/index.html#Update_Sites. If you decide to install it like this, during the installation if you get the security warning saying that the authenticity or validity of the software can't be established, just click "OK":{{page.relativePath}}/images/SecurityWarning.png.



h2(#Bundles). Bundles

The bundles corresponding to the last release are available on the "Obeo marketplace":http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/module/uml/download :
* "Windows 32bits":http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/latest/UMLDesigner-win32.win32.x86.zip
* "Windows 64bits":http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/latest/UMLDesigner-win32.win32.x86_64.zip
* "Linux 32bits":http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/latest/UMLDesigner-linux.gtk.x86.zip
* "Linux 64bits":http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/latest/UMLDesigner-linux.gtk.x86_64.zip
* "MacOs 64bits":http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/latest/UMLDesigner-macosx.cocoa.x86_64.zip

h2(#Marketplace). Marketplace

It is also possible to install UML Designer from the "Eclipse marketplace":http://marketplace.eclipse.org/search/site/UML%2520Designer or the Obeo marketplace "Obeo marketplace":http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/module/uml/download. Don't know how to install a module from the marketplace ? Have a look to the "marketplace client introduction":http://marketplace.eclipse.org/marketplace-client-intro.

h2(#Update_Sites). Update Sites

The following update-site provides a p2 repository for UML Designer :
Nightly (Sirius based) : http://marketplace.obeonetwork.com/updates/nightly/uml/repository
Release 4.0 (Sirius / Luna) : http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/4.0.1/repository/
Release 3.0 (Obeo Designer 6.2 / Kepler) : http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/3.0.0/repository/
Release 2.4 (Obeo Designer 6.1 / Juno) : http://www.obeo.fr/download/release/uml/2.4.1/repository/

Don't know how to install a module from an Update Site ? Have a look to our "video":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYTrO7THer0 or to the full "procedure":http://marketplace.eclipse.org/updatesite/help?url=http%3A//marketplace.obeonetwork.com/updates/od61/ description.


h1. Releases

All the releases and the corresponding code and issues are listed on the release page :
"https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/releases":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/releases

h1. Milestones

To see the roadmap and the next available releases, you can have a look to the milestone page : "https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/issues/milestones":https://github.com/ObeoNetwork/UML-Designer/issues/milestones
